Here are my five bold public speaking
predictions for 2026. Prediction number
one is that skillsbased speeches are
going to be preferred by audiences over
inspirationalonly
presentations.
And here's what I mean by that. I think
audiences, especially at events and
conferences, are going to really want to
walk away with a tangible skill. And
this will lead to more interactive
workshop style sessions versus the
60inute keynote where the speaker is
motivational but it leads to a
short-term stimulation versus actually
walking away with a skill. So if we talk
about artificial intelligence if you
have two speakers talking about that one
is speaking highlevel and gets people
motivated to use it. the other actually
gives workflows and ways that the
audience can go and deploy AI in their
own lives afterward. I think that is
going to be the type of presentation
that is preferred. Something to keep in
mind if you are a conference or event
planner. Prediction number two is that
public speaking is going to become a
core skill that is almost essential if
you want to have professional success.
And the idea here is that again going to
the example of AI, it is becoming
ubiquitous. It is without question going
to impact every industry. And so if we
think of what do we as humans have as a
differentiator right now? communication
skills. That element of being human is
our X factor. And these communication
skills are going to be so important.
Whether it's a sales pitch, whether it's
a Zoom meeting, whether it's an
in-person presentation to colleagues,
those who are able to communicate
effectively are going to have more
success in their professional lives.
Here's the good news. If you are
somebody who struggles with
communication skills, I recently came
across a 100day challenge for public
speaking on Tik Tok. And if you haven't
seen this before, check out these videos
of people who weren't confident doing
video content. And they did a 100 day
challenge to post a video every single
day. And on every example I came across,
it was a dramatic improvement from day
one to day 100.
These types of challenges are going to
become more common so people can really
hone these skills. Clubs like Toast
Masters are great to really define those
public speaking skills because they are
going to be more important than ever
when it comes to professional success.
Prediction number three is that more
people will practice their speech with
AI than they will in front of regular
people. There are so many great
artificial intelligence tools right now
like chat GPT voice is one example where
you can practice a speech and then chat
GPT can tell you how the speech
structure was where are opportunities
for more vocal variety and it can give
you that real-time feedback and I think
that people are more likely to start
their speaking journey using a tool like
this before presenting ing it to other
people because back in the day the
advice would have been to practice your
speech in front of family members or
friends. But sometimes a negative
reaction can derail your confidence.
Whereas AI is almost becoming our
trusted advisor and can give us tips
that reduce the pressure, the social
pressures we feel. And so I think more
and more people will practice their
speeches with AI before practicing in
front of other real humans. Prediction
number four is that storytelling will be
more important than ever. A friend of
mine and a keynote speaker Valerie
Garcia has a great quote. She says,
"Never tell a story without a point and
never make a point without telling a
story." And this leads into this idea
that stories are remembered 22 times
more than facts alone. And there's a
real power in wrapping a story around
your message in terms of the audience
resonating with that message and
allowing them to actually want to take
action. And there's been a lot of
research done on this, but Wall Street
Journal recently put out an article and
they cited a few facts. One was that the
number of LinkedIn job postings that
included the word storyteller nearly
doubled year-over-year 2025 compared to
2024.
And if you go back 10 years, the number
of times the word storytelling was used
on an investor call almost tripled, 3x
what it was 10 years ago. And so we're
seeing the this term of storyteller
being used by more and more companies.
Again, going back to those who are able
to communicate effectively and embed
stories in whatever it is that is the
product or the service that's being
offered are going to have more success.
And my final bold prediction is that
authenticity is going to beat perfect
polished videos. I believe what is our
differentiator as humans again tying it
to AI almost all of these four out of
five have to do with artificial
intelligence
and what our differentiator is is our
ability to be human to have the human
experience to share things from our
perspectives. And so for those who are
able to do videos in one take without
the perfect background, looking at the
phone, being authentic, being raw and
real are going to have more success than
those who have all sorts of edits,
flying in special effects, all of these
things going on. There's a time and a
place for those videos, but that
authenticity with the camera, I think,
is going to be more important than ever.
I'll end with a quote from one of my
good friends. He says, "Raw, raw is out.
Raw and real is in." Those are my five
bold public speaking predictions for
2026. Please let me know in the comments
whether you agree. Maybe you are
thinking of something that I missed.
Whatever it is, let me know. Thank you
for watching this